Enable Kong Manager how to + multi-domains reference (#607)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/gateway/kong-manager.md

---
title: "Kong Manager"
content_type: reference
layout: reference

products:
    - gateway

min_version:
  gateway: '3.4'

description: Kong Manager is the graphical user interface (GUI) for {{site.base_gateway}}.

faqs:
  - q: I can't access Kong Manager. How do I fix a Kong Manager URL that doesn’t resolve?
    a: |
      Most likely, the port wasn't exposed during installation. Install a new instance and map port `8002` during installation.
      
      For example, with a Docker install:

      ```
      -p 127.0.0.1:8002:8002
      ```

related_resources:
  - text: Enable Basic Auth for Kong Manager
    url: /how-to/enable-basic-auth-on-kong-manager/
  - text: Enable OIDC for Kong Manager
    url: /how-to/enable-oidc-for-kong-manager/
  - text: Set up authenticated group mapping in Kong Manager with OIDC
    url: /how-to/oidc-authenticated-group-mapping/
  - text: Configure LDAP with Kong Manager
    url: /how-to/configure-ldap-with-kong-manager/
  - text: Configuring Kong Manager to Send Email
    url: /how-to/configure-kong-manager-email/

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags:
  - kong-manager
---
```
Maybe just this as a tag? I imagine "kong-manager" is a reasonable tag to filter on, and would help in creating an index if we need one.

> @todo
> 
> Pull content from https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/kong-manager/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I looked at that page, and I think most of that content will go on the Kong Gateway landing page - if it even needs to exist (eg, Kong OSS isn't a thing anymore so we won't have a comparison table)

---
title: "Kong Manager"
content_type: reference
layout: reference

products:
    - gateway

min_version:
  gateway: '3.4'

description: Kong Manager is the graphical user interface (GUI) for {{site.base_gateway}}.

faqs:
  - q: I can't access Kong Manager. How do I fix a Kong Manager URL that doesn’t resolve?
    a: |
      Most likely, the port wasn't exposed during installation. Install a new instance and map port `8002` during installation.
      
      For example, with a Docker install:

      ```
      -p 127.0.0.1:8002:8002
      ```

related_resources:
  - text: Enable Basic Auth for Kong Manager
    url: /how-to/enable-basic-auth-on-kong-manager/
  - text: Enable OIDC for Kong Manager
    url: /how-to/enable-oidc-for-kong-manager/
  - text: Set up authenticated group mapping in Kong Manager with OIDC
    url: /how-to/oidc-authenticated-group-mapping/
  - text: Configure LDAP with Kong Manager
    url: /how-to/configure-ldap-with-kong-manager/
  - text: Configuring Kong Manager to Send Email
    url: /how-to/configure-kong-manager-email/
---

@todo

Pull content from https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/kong-manager/

> If you're running {{site.base_gateway}} with a database (either in traditional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're running {{site.base_gateway}} on-prem with a database (either in traditional
```

or hybrid mode), you can enable {{site.base_gateway}}'s graphical user interface
(GUI), Kong Manager.

## Enable Kong Manager

> To enable Kong Manager, set the [`KONG_ADMIN_GUI_PATH`](/gateway/configuration/#admin_gui_path) and [`KONG_ADMIN_GUI_URL`](/gateway/configuration/#admin_gui_url) properties in the ([`kong.conf`](/gateway/configuration/)) configuration file to the DNS or IP address of your system, then reload {{site.base_gateway}} with `kong reload` for the setting to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable Kong Manager, set the following parameters in `kong.conf`, then restart {{site.base_gateway}}:
{% kong_config_table %}
config:
  - name: admin_gui_path
  - name: admin_gui_url
{% endkong_config_table %}
```
Let's use the conf table format here. Also, avoid using `reload` unless specifically referring to a Docker container.

> If you're running {{site.base_gateway}} in Docker, you'd use the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're running {{site.base_gateway}} in Docker, you can use the following example, making sure to replace the `KONG_CONTAINER_ID` with your own container:
```

```bash

> docker exec -i $KONG_CONTAINER_ID /bin/sh -c "export KONG_ADMIN_GUI_PATH='/'; export KONG_ADMIN_GUI_URL='http://localhost:8002/manager'; kong reload; exit"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker exec -i $KONG_CONTAINER_ID /bin/sh -c \
"export KONG_ADMIN_GUI_PATH='/'; \
export KONG_ADMIN_GUI_URL='http://localhost:8002/manager'; \
kong reload; \
exit"
```
So that we don't have a scrolling codeblock.

```
This example uses the default Kong Manager path and URL.

> If you're enabling Kong Manager in production, you may need to change the following:
> * `$KONG_CONTAINER_ID`: The Docker container for {{site.base_gateway}}. The {{site.base_gateway}} quickstart script we used in the prerequisites uses this container by default.
> * `KONG_ADMIN_GUI_PATH`: The path to the GUI.
> * `KONG_ADMIN_GUI_URL`: The URL of Kong Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Let's take this whole thing out. The conf table should cover it.

{:.info}
> **Note:** If you run the [{{site.base_gateway}} quickstart script](https://get.konghq.com/quickstart), Kong Manager is automatically enabled.

To verify that Kong Manager is running, access it on port `8002` at the default URL: [http://localhost:8002/workspaces](http://localhost:8002/workspaces)

{% if_version gte:3.9.x %}
## Multiple domains 
To configure Kong Manager to be accessible from multiple domains, you can list the domains as comma-separated values in the [`admin_gui_url`](/gateway/configuration/#admin_gui_url) parameter in your Kong configuration. For example:
```
admin_gui_url = http://localhost:8002, http://127.0.0.1:8002
```

If the [`admin_gui_path`](/gateway/configuration/#admin_gui_path) is also set, update the Kong configuration:
```
admin_gui_url = http://localhost:8002/manager, http://127.0.0.1:8002/manager
admin_gui_path = /manager
```
Make sure that each domain has proper DNS records and that the {{site.base_gateway}} instance is accessible from all specified domains.

> If your setup involves multiple domains or subdomains, it’s generally recommended to remove the `cookie_domain` setting in the [`admin_gui_session_conf`](/gateway/configuration/#admin_gui_session_conf) or [`admin_gui_auth_conf`](/gateway/configuration/#admin_gui_auth_conf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your setup involves multiple domains or subdomains, we recommend removing the `cookie_domain` setting in the [`admin_gui_session_conf`](/gateway/configuration/#admin_gui_session_conf) or [`admin_gui_auth_conf`](/gateway/configuration/#admin_gui_auth_conf).
```
